Cli documentation (#460)
preactjs/preact-www: content/en/cli/getting-started.md

---
name: CLI
permalink: '/cli/about'
description: 'Preact CLI documentation'
---

# Installation

> Getting started with Preact-CLi is just about download preact-cli node module.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To get started with Preact CLI, install it from [npm](https://npmjs.com/package/preact-cli):
```

```shell
npm i -g preact-cli
```

> This installs a global command `preact`, which can be used to create, develop and build preact PWAs henceforth.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This installs a global `preact` command, which we'll use to set up a new projects.
```

## Project creation

### Templates
Use one of our official templates to get started

- **Default**

>   This template comes configured with `preact` and `preact-router` to get you started with your app development without any bloat.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This template is a great starting point for most applications. It comes with `preact-router` and a couple sample routes, and does route-based code splitting by default.
```

- **Simple**

>   This tempalte is an open playing groung. With no deps installed, you are free to choose your own tools.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A "bare bones" template, starting from a "Hello World" application. If you're looking to chose your own tools or already have a setup in mind, this is a good way to start.
```

- **Material**

>   If you are a material design lover this template comes pre-configured with `preact-material-components` so that you can start using material design without any hassle.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This template comes pre-configured with [preact-material-components](https://material.preactjs.com) and a small example app to get you started quickly and easily.
```

- **Netlify CMS**

>   If you're looking for your next blog, look no further. This template has Netlify CMS pre-configured and gives you a simple elegant blog for you.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Looking to set up a blog? Look no further! This template gives you a simple and elegant Preact-powered blog that you can edit using [Netlify CMS](https://www.netlifycms.org/).
```

> To get started with these templates just do

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To get started with any of these templates, run `preact create` to create a new project with your template of choice:
```

```shell
preact create <template-name> <app-name>
```

> This will create the folder and install all the dependencies.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now that your project is set up, you can `cd` into the newly-created directory and start a development server:
```

```shell
cd <app-name>

> npm run dev/build

Reviewer: ```suggestion
npm start
```

```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Now open your editor and start editing! For most templates the best place to start is `src/index.js` or `src/components/app/index.js`.

```

## Production builds

> Run `npm run build` to create production build which will reside in `build` directory in the app folder.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `npm run build` command compiles a production-ready build of your application and places it a `build` directory a the project root.
```

> Production builds can be fine tuned to match your needs with a series of flags. Find the full linst of flags [here](https://github.com/preactjs/preact-cli#preact-build).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Production builds can be fine tuned to match your needs with a series of flags. Find the full list of flags [here](https://github.com/preactjs/preact-cli#preact-build).
```

> **Usage**

Reviewer: move `e.g.` to here

```suggestion
**Usage Example:**
```

e.g.

This will generate webpack's asset json which can be used in a webpack [analyzer](https://chrisbateman.github.io/webpack-visualizer/).

```shell
preact build --json
```

## Editing index.html

> If you want to add or edit the markup generated by `preact-cli` like add meta tags, adding additional scripts, or adding link tags for fonts, then you can edit the `template.html` in the `src` folder.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to add or edit the markup generated by `preact-cli` to add meta tags, custom scripts or fonts, then you can edit `src/template.html`:
```

This is generated by `preact-cli` v3.

> Otherwise, if you're upgrading from an old version you can create `template.html` in `src` folder which will be picked automatically.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

> The contacts of `template.html` markup looks like the following by default.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

```html
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
	<head>
		<meta charset="utf-8">
		<title><% preact.title %></title>
		<meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width,initial-scale=1">
		<meta name="mobile-web-app-capable" content="yes">
		<meta name="apple-mobile-web-app-capable" content="yes">
		<% preact.headEnd %>
	</head>
	<body>
		<% preact.bodyEnd %>
	</body>
</html>

> ```

Reviewer: ````suggestion
```

**Note:** if you're upgrading from an old version, you can create a `src/template.html`, and it will be used the next time you build the application or start the development server.
````
